[Music]
you're in the seas of Indonesia
on a local fishing platform these
fishermen have been operating here for
decades
which hasn't gone unnoticed
an unlikely species has sensed an
opportunity for an easy meal if you
aren't already looking down now's the
time
well sharks the largest fish in the sea
right beneath you
their populations have more than half in
recent years but here they're protected
giving their numbers a chance to recover
you may have spotted a diver in the
water let's see what I see camera
operator
Roger moons will now take you closer
than you ever thought you'd get to these
magnificent creatures
believe it or not these are mostly
juveniles and could grow to almost twice
this size
[Music]
even though they're the largest fish on
earth they feed almost entirely on some
of the smallest creatures in the sea
they're filter feeders and they inhale
huge mouthfuls of food and sift out the
tasty bits through the Giants
across the world whale sharks are facing
threats from overfishing pollution and
habitat loss but here they live in a
marine protected area and fishing forum
is strictly prohibited
[Music]
this Bay is now thought to be a
particularly important place for young
sharks to grow up
[Music]
we'll leave you to enjoy this
once-in-a-lifetime experience
[Music]